Add otelcol faro exporter (#3810)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.faro.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.faro/
description: Learn about otelcol.exporter.faro
labels:
  stage: general-availability
  products:
    - oss
title: otelcol.exporter.faro
---

# `otelcol.exporter.faro`

> `otelcol.exporter.faro` accepts logs and traces telemetry data from other `otelcol` components and sends it to [Faro][Faro] endpoint.

Reviewer: @mar4uk thank you for adding the paragraph below. However, I'm still not sure when users should prefer sending via OTLP vs sending the Faro format natively?

> `otelcol.exporter.faro` accepts logs and traces telemetry data from other `otelcol` components and sends it to [Faro][Faro] endpoint.

Author: The main point is faro exporter should be used instead of OTLP exporter in order to use Grafana Frontend Observability solution.
Frontend Observability will not work if export data to Grafana Cloud in OTLP format

> `otelcol.exporter.faro` accepts logs and traces telemetry data from other `otelcol` components and sends it to [Faro][Faro] endpoint.

Reviewer: I spoke with Irina on Slack and agreed to add more docs on this once the otelcol receiver is merged.

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.faro/
description: Learn about otelcol.exporter.faro
labels:

>   stage: general-availability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  stage: experimental
```

  products:
    - oss
title: otelcol.exporter.faro
---

> # `otelcol.exporter.faro`
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# `otelcol.exporter.faro`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

```

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-tls-tpm-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `debug_metrics`

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `retry_on_failure`

The `retry_on_failure` block configures how failed requests to the HTTP server are retried.

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-retry-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

### `sending_queue`

The `sending_queue` block configures an in-memory buffer of batches before data is sent to the HTTP server.

{{< docs/shared lookup="reference/components/otelcol-queue-block.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

| Name    | Type               | Description                                                      |
| ------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to. |

> `input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics, logs, or traces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for logs and traces.
```
